Web service that provide resizeable compute capacity in cloud.
Each virtual server known as "instance".
Preconfig template for instance called Amazon Machine Image.
Has full control on OS layer
Key pair (public key and pvt key).

used to securely connect to EC2 instance.

Category:
1. General purpose.
2. Compute optimized
3. Memory Optimized
4. Accelerated Computing
5. Storage Optimized

Launching EC2 instance: options to select-
AMI to select
Auto-assign IP- default to use subset setting
Termination protection
IAM role
Basic monitoring
add script to run
join to a directory
Storage options
Non root volumes can be encrypted

Dedicated host
Physical server dedicated for use
Control which server deploy on the host
Complete isolation most expensive option

IP address
Public, private, elastic IP can be assigned to instance

IAM roles
more secure than storing access key and secret access key

Bastion/jump hosts
configure instance as Bastion as jump host to access VPC instance for management
can also use AWS system manager instead of using bastion host

Monitor EC2
problem that can cause system check to fail: network connection loss, system power loss, software issue on physical host, exhaust memory, corrupt file system, incompatible kernel

unified cloudwatch agent
collect more system level metric across OS.
Collect system-level metrics from on-premises servers.
Collect logs from Amazon EC2 instances and on-premises servers, running either Linux or Windows Server.
Retrieve custom metrics from your applications or services using the StatsD and collectd protocols.

Logging and Auditing
integrated with AWS Cloudtrail (to record action taken by user, role and AWS service in EC2 and EBS)
Cloudtrail capture all API call for EC2 and EBS, store record indefinetly

Tags
label assign to AWS resource
help you manage, identify, organize, search for, and filter resource
consist of key and optional value
used for cost allocation, security automation and many other uses.
most resource can have upto 50 tags

high availability approach for compute
uptodate AMI are critical for rapid failover
AMI can be copied to other region
